chore: create a section on session hijack (#641)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/specification/draft/basic/security_best_practices.mdx

  3. Server B enqueues the event (keyed by session ID) into a shared queue.
  4. Server A polls the queue for events using the session ID and retrieves the malicious payload.
  5. Server A sends the malicious payload to the client as an asynchronous response.
  6. The client receives and acts on the malicious payload, potentially leading to compromise.
2. Session Impersonation Hijack
  1. The client authenticates with the server, which creates a persistent session and returns a session ID.
  2. The attacker guesses or accesses the session ID.
  3. The attacker makes API calls to the server using the stolen session ID.
  4. The server does not re-authenticate the request and treats the attacker as the legitimate user, allowing unauthorized access or actions.

#### 2.3.4 Mitigation

To prevent session hijacking and event injection attacks, the following mitigations should be implemented:

HTTP servers **MUST** authenticate All Requests.
Ensure that every request is authenticated. HTTP MCP Servers **MUST NOT** use sessions for authentication.

HTTP servers **MUST** use secure, unpredictable session IDs.

> Generate session IDs using secure random generators, such as cryptographically secure UUIDs. Avoid predictable or sequential session identifiers that could be guessed by an attacker.

Reviewer: Explicitly suggesting rotating and expiring session IDs could also be beneficial here.

> Generate session IDs using secure random generators, such as cryptographically secure UUIDs. Avoid predictable or sequential session identifiers that could be guessed by an attacker.

Author: Added note

  5. **Server A** sends the malicious payload to the client as an asynchronous or resumed response.
  6. The client receives and acts on the malicious payload, leading to potential compromise.
2. Session Impersonation Hijack
  1. The MCP client authenticates with the MCP server, creating a persistent session ID.
  2. The attacker obtains the session ID.
  3. The attacker makes calls to the MCP server using the session ID.
 4. MCP server does not check for additional authorization and treats the attacker as a legitimate user, allowing unauthorized access or actions.

#### 2.3.4 Mitigation

To prevent session hijacking and event injection attacks, the following mitigations should be implemented:

MCP servers that implement authorization **MUST** verify all inbound requests.
MCP Servers **MUST NOT** use sessions for authentication.

MCP servers **MUST** use secure, non-deterministic session IDs.
Generated session IDs (e.g., UUIDs) **SHOULD** use secure random generators. Avoid predictable or sequential session identifiers that could be guessed by an attacker. Rotating or expiring session IDs can also reduce the risk.

> MCP servers **SHOULD** bind session keys to user-specific information.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean to refer to "session IDs" rather than "keys" here? Or are session keys something else?

When storing or transmitting session-related data (e.g., in a queue), combine the session ID with information unique to the authorized user, such as their internal user ID. Use a key format like `<user_id>:<session_id>`. This ensures that even if an attacker guesses a session ID, they cannot impersonate another user as the user ID is derived from the user token and not provided by the client.

> MCP servers can optionally leverage additional unique identifiers. 

Author: It's admittedly hard to find good alternatives if the user isn't logged in. I did hesitate for this, as it does cause false negatives. I just wanted to add that there can be other data which can work. I'm happy to drop it if it doesn't add much.

Also, according to the spec, if you try to use a session ID and the session is no longer valid and your request is rejected, you get foreced to re-initialize. That can break the state on a stateful server though, so not exactly ideal, but for most scenarios it would just continue to work.

#### Mitigation

MCP servers **MUST NOT** accept any tokens that were not explicitly issued for the MCP server.

### 2.3 Session Hijacking

> Session hijacking is when a client is provided a session ID by the server and another client is able to use the same session ID to act on behalf of the original client in some way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Session hijacking is an attack vector where a client is provided a session ID by the server, and an unauthorized party is able to obtain and use that same session ID to impersonate the original client and perform unauthorized actions on their behalf.
```

  3. **Server B** enqueues the event (associated with session ID) into a shared queue.
  4. **Server A** polls the queue for events using the session ID and retrieves the malicious payload.
  5. **Server A** sends the malicious payload to the client as an asynchronous or resumed response.
  6. The client receives and acts on the malicious payload, leading to potential compromise.
2. Session Impersonation Hijack
  1. The MCP client authenticates with the MCP server, creating a persistent session ID.
  2. The attacker obtains the session ID.
  3. The attacker makes calls to the MCP server using the session ID.
 4. MCP server does not check for additional authorization and treats the attacker as a legitimate user, allowing unauthorized access or actions.

#### 2.3.4 Mitigation

To prevent session hijacking and event injection attacks, the following mitigations should be implemented:

MCP servers that implement authorization **MUST** verify all inbound requests.
MCP Servers **MUST NOT** use sessions for authentication.

MCP servers **MUST** use secure, non-deterministic session IDs.

> Generated session IDs (e.g., UUIDs) **SHOULD** use secure random generators. Avoid predictable or sequential session identifiers that could be guessed by an attacker. Rotating or expiring session IDs can also reduce the risk.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Generated session IDs (e.g., UUIDs) **SHOULD** use secure random number generators. Avoid predictable or sequential session identifiers that could be guessed by an attacker. Rotating or expiring session IDs can also reduce the risk.
```
